gh-124622: Add PyGILState_EnsureOrFail() function (#129688)
python/cpython: Doc/c-api/init.rst

      Hangs the current thread, rather than terminating it, if called while the
      interpreter is finalizing.

.. c:function:: int PyGILState_EnsureOrFail(PyGILState_STATE *state)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyGILState_Ensure`, but *state* is an argument

>    and return ``-1`` if the thread must exit. Return ``0`` on success.

Reviewer: This is confusing and misleading. The C or C++ thread must not exit. It's just that the function failed taking the GIL, probably because Python is finalized.

      Hangs the current thread, rather than terminating it, if called while the
      interpreter is finalizing.

.. c:function:: int PyGILState_EnsureOrFail(PyGILState_STATE *state)

   Similar to :c:func:`PyGILState_Ensure`, except that it returns with a status
   code even in the case of failure. Specifically, it returns ``0`` when the

>    operation succeeded, and ``-1`` otherwise. In contrast to
>    :c:func:`PyGILState_Ensure`, *state* is an argument.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   operation succeeded, and ``-1`` otherwise.
   The return value of :c:func:`!PyGILState_Ensure`
   is stored in *\*state*.
```

   In the case of failure, it is *unsafe* to use the Python API following the

>    call. Releasing the obtained *state* via :c:func:`PyGILState_Release` should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   call. Releasing the obtained *state* via :c:func:`PyGILState_Release` must
```

Author: I applied this suggestion to https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/130012 since I closed this PR.

   only be done in the case of success.

> 

Reviewer 2: >> Could you add the mention that these are “not compatible with sub-interpreters” directly to the docs?
> Which API should be recommended instead, if this one is not compatible with sub-interpreters?

I meant repeating the note above `PyGILState_Ensure` that says *The following functions use thread-local storage, and are not compatible with sub-interpreters:*. Users that click the What's New link go directly to the function docs and are quite likely to miss the warning.
Something like:

```suggestion

   Like :c:func:`!PyGILState_Ensure`, this function is not safe to use with
   supinterpreters, since it is not possible to specify which interpreter
   is activated.

```

Author: https://github.com/python/cpython/pull/130012 PR should be subinterpreter-friendly, I closed this PR instead.
